>> Speaker 1: Where would you kind of
draw the lines as far as writing tests or
test-driven development around SQLite?
>> Brian Holt: I was literally talking
about this with my boss yesterday.
>> Brian Holt: You don't have to test
SQLite, it's extremely well tested.
Dr. Hipp is obsessive with the test that
he writes, and I mean that in actually
an admiring way, that he writes tester
to test his software extremely well.
I think it's part of the reason they
don't accept outside contributions,
is because they're obsessed with
keeping it so battle tested.
So, if I call this select, do I get
the correct thing back from the database?
I'm not testing that, right?
I'm assuming that SQLite is going to
continue to be extremely reliable.
If you have strong business
logic tied into your database,
which you can using things like
constraints and triggers and functions and
all sorts of wild things, much of which
we're not gonna talk about today,
because I don't think a lot of
that stuff belongs in a database.
Then you'd wanna write some integration
tests to make sure that your
business logic that you're providing
to SQLite to run on your behalf,
run the way that you expect them to.
So, I would test that.
Beyond that,
most of the danger is in your code, right?
So I'm much more into the unit test
of make things modular, make them
self-contained where possible, and then
pull them out and test them individually.
The nice thing about SQLite
is it runs anywhere.
It can run inside of GitHub actions,
it can run in circle, Jenkins, wherever.
So you can just spin up a database,
run a bunch of tests that call and
hit the database.
It'll be very fast,
you don't have to worry about latency or
anything like that, or
tear down or anything like that.
So those are kind of like they're almost
integration tests, I guess, there's two
different pieces working together, but
it's a library at that point, right?
So, I wouldn't be too
amiss to just go ahead and
write those tests using
the SQLite database.
Perhaps one of the strongest arguments for
SQLite is that these kind of
scenarios are really possible,
that you can have just a normal,
vanilla copy of SQLite running locally.
That you read and write to a bunch of
times for your local development cycle,
and then you push into the your
Git repo that then deploys, and
then it calls something like tersa or
SQLite cloud or something like that.
That's a really good workflow,
that works really well for me, and
it tests very well.
So, that's kind of some unsorted
thoughts about what I think about
testing with SQLite.
Don't test the database itself,
test your code, and
if you have heavy lifting being done
in your database, then test those two.
>> Speaker 1: So, [COUGH] like in
a pipeline, you would just install
a new instance of SQLite
as part of a workflow?
>> Brian Holt: Basically, I mean,
essentially what I would do is,
this is the app that we're gonna be
working on here in just a little bit.
You can see I include here data.db.
I might just include a test.db,
preceded with a bunch of valid data,
script of PII and stuff like that.
And then all of your tests can
just obliterate that database and
not check it in, right?
And so you can just think run
all your tests, no problem.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty hot, right?
Like, it's so much easier to not have to
spin up a version of your database and
do a bunch of tests by that and then
throw it away and then re instantiate it,
and all that kind of stuff.
Yeah, that workflow works
really well with SQLite.